substack link: https://ashstu.substack.com/p/baby-killer

"How a Child Is Made to Kill and Not to Cry (and Why ‘You Don’t Have to Do That’)
A True Tale of Learning to Loudly Reject Sanctioned Terrorism" 
- Apr 16, 2026

“...fathers impact their sons, once their voices have changed in puberty, [as they] invariably answer the telephone with the same locations and intonations as their fathers.” — David Foster Wallace, Infinite Jest

I was thirteen the first time I shot a deer, and it was the last time I’d ever want to. Though I had been hunting many times before, this was the first time I actually pulled the trigger. In the beginning I was very excited; having watched my dad return home so many times with conquered wild trophies, I wanted to make him proud. I was told the goal was efficiency, to make the kill as “humane” as possible.

My first few hunts were uneventful, and yet I did not feel like a loser. I remember a feeling of wonder, empowerment, and belonging, like when I first heard The Beatles, a unique warmth and fulfillment now only lingering in distant memory; we’d wake up before even the sun in some cheap hotel, eat cereal bars for breakfast, and hike deep into the brush to camp, only to ever watch, and this was awesome, this was everything I needed from hunting. But when I finally pulled the trigger, my perception of the sport became something entirely different.

My dad won a set of tickets for himself, my brother, and I, to hunt a private ranch in Cheyenne, Oklahoma. The landscape felt flat and vast like a foreign planet with beautiful mesas looming in the distance. We lived on gas station snacks and junk. In the beginning before we picked up our rifles, we drove UTVs, chased cows in a circle around their pen (which was idiotic), climbed to the top of a high mesa and looked across the whole world it seemed, then stumbled down and covered our socks with cactus thorns. We found a bull snake, and I picked it up by the head and straightened its tail so we could feel the scales. This was awesome; this was everything.

The first deer I shot and the first I killed were two different animals. Under the direction of my elder partner, I took a shot at a fawn during a storm, fearing I’d “lose” another day. It vanished into the grass, and we assumed it was dead. To my pleasure and regret, soon the storm cleared and the sun returned. Later in the evening, right after the sun went down, a buck emerged from the trees and I shot him where he stood. When we finally approached the fawn, it lifted its head from the brush.

My astonishment lasted only a second before I realized the evil of what I’d done: I missed the kill shot, and only split the baby’s stomach open. Bambi’s guts had been hanging out of her living body for at least three hours. My partner stepped in at point-blank range, and shot the terrorized young soul in her neck, ensuring she was killed at long last.

It isn’t standard to kill fawns, it’s said it’s best to let them grow into a more substantial haul of meat, but the real reason most people avoid it is because it is simply cruel. I was merely following orders at that moment, but I remain responsible for the result. When we strung up the miniature carcass and began the butchering process, I wanted to cry deeply, but I did not, because I felt I had to look strong, because that's what I'd been made to think, but that was incorrect.

“You don’t have to do that. - Silence is not a strength.” — Chris Fields, ‘Silence is not a strength’: Firefighter in Pulitzer Prize photo details struggles after OKC bombing, Abby Young, OU Daily, 2026.

I liked the beginning: the uniform, the mission, and the belonging; but I turned out to hate the ending: becoming death, destroyer of cute woodland creatures.

Out there one morning, as my dad drove the truck down a long road while I sat in the passenger seat, with a thick fog blanketing the flatland, Neil Young’s “Old Man” came over the spotty radio waves (a song about a young man seeing his whole life already lived out in someone older). My dad said he liked it, and I said I did too.

Years earlier, prepping for another hunt, we were driving to a gun range somewhere in rural Oklahoma, to tune the sights on the rifle, and he found a country station, and told me he liked to listen to old country music when he hunted. I thought nothing of it then. Now in memory, I think the songs and hunting remind him of his dad.

Years later, in his house, when I told my dad I did not want to join the U.S. military as he had long hoped, because I viewed our current foreign policy as a ‘terror machine’ and didn’t want to contribute any more than my taxes already had, he called me anti-American. We yelled for a while, circling each other with intense heat. Finally I told him I wanted him to convince me otherwise, but he didn’t. He only replied, “You need to know who you’re talking to.”

I think now I see clearly who I was talking to: He is a lot like me. We both want to climb high and look across the whole world; we both want to pick up a snake and let our family feel its scales; and we both want to belong.

But I, don’t want the blood, and have learned that the performance I thought I wanted at thirteen was a mirage. I have found a different, more ethical belonging, in the honesty of my own voice. Now I won’t be silent.

“…most people were silent.” — J. Robert Oppenheimer, The Decision to Drop the Bomb, Fred Freed, NBC News, 1965.
