substack link: https://ashstu.substack.com/p/unfit-for-cultivation

"Unfit for Cultivation
A True Tale of Why Short-Sighted Apes Make Losing Leaders" 
- Apr 16, 2026

“[The Region-Oklahoma] is almost wholly unfit for cultivation, and of course uninhabitable by a people depending upon agriculture for their substance. The scarcity of wood and water, will prove an insuperable obstacle.” — Major Stephen Long, 1823
“Guitar groups are on their way out.” — Dick Rowe (Decca Records), 1962
“Netflix [is not] even on the radar screen…“ — Jim Keyes (Blockbuster), 2008
Maj. Long, Mr. Rowe, and Mr. Keyes, all spoke with a common specific flaw: they only saw value already fully realized. I’ve learned that a leader should do more than just what is easy, to yell and spit orders, to sit back and watch the prodigies, to pander to a crowd; they should do the hard things, and drop any comfortably static worldview.

I used to play baseball, just for a short time, I think because I only had losing leaders.

My first season was in Little League, but toward the end of the year, the coach fought his ex-wife’s new husband in front of the team.

I did not return to the sport until the 8th grade, which was the same year my parents divorced. At the initial meeting, the coach, hereinafter “Coach,” a man who resembled Kenny Powers, asked if I was there as a “goof”. I had no idea why he assumed, based only on my looks, that I was not taking it seriously.

I had everything the “coolest” players had, except Pit Vipers thankfully. Before practice started, my mom, although she could not easily get the money for it, bought me two bats, an outfields mitt, and the mitt I wanted most (because it had the largest pocket:) a first baseman’s.

Coach did not know, or care, about my dynamic story. Once, stopping practice in front of the boys at first base, Coach questioned me:

“What impression do you think it sends us when you show up on the first day with a first baseman’s glove?” Coach said, with the air of a man entertaining a circle of bullies who prey on weaklings.

“That I want to play first base?” I answered like the confused 13-year-old I was.

“No,” Coach replied. “It says you already do play first base”.

I was too much of a dreamer to understand what the “problem” was or what I had done wrong. He only saw immediate and easily extractable value, like Maj. Long, Mr. Rowe, and Mr. Keyes, and the other losing leaders too stupid to see the value that might exist beyond their static worldview.

“The wavin’ wheat can sure smell sweet-You’re doing fine, Oklahoma!” — Rodgers and Hammerstein, 1943
“Ladies and gentlemen, the Beatles!” — The Ed Sullivan Show, 1964
“Blockbuster files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.” — The Wall Street Journal, 2010
Coach quit or was fired my 9th-grade year. I only played football that year, and Coach showed up to an early home game wearing his new school’s merchandise head to toe (perceived by many as only a pathetic cry, the act of a washed-up failure who was once treated like a slave, and hates the life he settled with, so he inflicts his inner darkness onto those adolescents in whom he sees a soul, and seeks the attention of the very adolescents he needs to spite.)

I was not the best athlete, or the best on my 8th grade JV baseball team; all I wanted was for someone to show me how to play first base, to be more than a losing leader.
